                (tar) line 18 - normal multiplier increased to 4.0, "z" component decreased to 0.8 for "more pronounced effect". maybe make configurable? not much difference i don't think

                (tar) line 55 height is multiplied by 1.5, maybe make it configurable? seems like it's not a big deal - maybe even cancels out the light pos multiplier or normal multiplier

(tar) line 76 changes color based on mass. maybe make it configurable? complex but cool potential rainbow effect. not necessary. probably just was a hardcoded value for teal

(dissolve) line 95-113 big divergence. uses dissolve and wetness effects. possibly not worth keeping, but could be behind an if statement



roughness metalness and basecolor are set in original

            uniform vec3 uBaseColor;
            uniform vec4 uSecondaryColor;
            uniform float uRoughness;
            uniform float uMetalness;
            uniform sampler2D uImageTexture;

            (original)(glass)(dissolve) line 25+26  maybe make toggleable? seems to make it more water like and less like clay. softens white. perhaps the mix can toggle

        (tar) line 51 light pos last param is 1.5, maybe make it configurable? seems like z axis so it makes it closer or bigger?


            (modern) line 53 light post is same, maybe make it configurable?

            line 67 F0 mix value should be configurable - it's set to 0.04 in original. it affects the specular highlight

            (original) line 74 dampens the lighting when smooth.


            (tar) line 79 base color multiplier is 0.85, what i believe to be a brightness multiplier

    (glass)(dissolve) big divergence.. or maybe not. conditional for secondary color to subtract or affect.  probably unnecessary
            (glass) bigger divergence. image texture is used for color. make blendfactor configurable. conditional for mixing in image texture.
    (glass) chromatic aberration effect...also make toggleable and configurable. perhaps differen than blendfactor.

            line 82 should be used for secondary color. i think i was confused about line 81/82 and that caused unexpected result. maybe it's desirable but i was subtracting out the base color and replacing it with secondary basically

            line 83 for base color - perhaps get rid of multiplier as it is basically just brighness

            (tar)(glass) line 87 tone mapping pow denominator is 2.2, maybe make it configurable? it makes it darker with more specular highlights. tone mapping in general could be configurable

that's it! next!